---
layout: post
permalink: /blog/hackathon
title: "Hackathon? More Like Slackathon"
categories: jekyll update
---

The weekend of the hackathon was supposed to be one of the most intense weekends for everyone who attended The Iron Yard. What did I do? Sat at home. Not by choice. And it was awful.

About 2-3 weeks in being a UI Design student, I discovered I had a non-cancerous mass in my Uterus. Sounds scary right? You don't even know the half of it. Finding out about what was going on was actually a relief though. Up until that point I couldn't for the life of me figure out why I was so tired all of the time and why I kept getting so sick to my stomach throughout the day at random times. Not to mention the **insane** stomach pains I kept getting. Although a relief, it was also one of the most FRUSTRATING things to happen to me thus far in school (and if you've read by First Blog Post, you'd know I dealt with a lot at the beginning).

Something you should know about me: I'm an insanely hard worker. This is how I was raised. You give everything your all at all times and only take breaks when absolutely necessary. Some may frown upon that perspective, especially if you're a strong believer in the "Work hard, play hard" mantra thinking that by giving it 100% all the time will get you burned out quickly. But being a DeVoll, we find our play while working hard. It's what keeps us motivated and excited on what we are doing. The more we throw ourselves into something, the better the outcome will be. My work carries home with me beyond what's expected and I wouldn't have it any other way. Don't get me wrong, I am MORE than capable of having fun. But one of the biggest joys I find in life is completing something and knowing that I did it well. My social life can always take a break and meet back up with me once I'm finished making something seriously awesome.  

When I found out that I required surgery, I'll just be real... it SUCKED. Bad. Especially when the availability for the operation fell during the time we would be having our hackathon. I had the option to postpone it, but being the amazing people that The Iron Yard Staff is, they told me that they want me to get better sooner rather than later and that if I wanted I could make up the hackathon during the next cohort. It was comforting to know that they cared so much about my well being, but at the same time it was extremely frustrating to me that I had something holding me back from something I was actually really looking forward to.

This was something my ex boyfriend talked to me about as being his favorite/least favorite thing about the entire course. He hated how stressful it was, yet he loved how much experience he gained from it. Being the competitive person I am, I automatically set myself up to be excited for conquering this "hackathon" and making it, well, my "female dog" for lack of better words. 

So yeah, finding out that I wasn't going to be able to do hackathon sucked so much. I was however able to get caught up on a lot of work that I otherwise wouldn't have been able to, so that was nice. But overall, I am still very disappointed that I don't have a super cool project to display on my portfolio that is actually fully functioning due to having worked with both front and back end developers. Luckily though, I have made friends with majority of them in our cohort, so stay tuned. Something amazing may happen? You never know. 