---
layout: post
title:  "UI Design.. How Did I Get Here?"
categories: jekyll update
---

After reading through my very first post, I realized how I left out the crucial factor on how I came to being at The Iron Yard: that guy who dumped me right at the beginning. Super embarrassing, but I know I will be asked this MANY times on why I even started my journey into web design. So, the answer is him. 

He started going to The Iron Yard during the latter parts of our relationship. I was super proud of him for finally taking the initiative to do more with his life. As much as I loved him being a pedicabber (which let's be real, in Austin is a pretty cool thing to do), I wanted him to do more with his life and I was super excited when he decided to start a new adventure into web design.

Being that I had already hunkered down on my "big girl job" right out of college as a directory of an after-school child care program in the RISD elementary schools, I have dealt with my extreme fair share of responsibility. Not only did I deal with hiring and being in charge of my employees, but I had to keep track of and handle my program's tuition, which inadvertently allowed me to establish how to create a friendly yet professional relationship with the parents of my students. It's definitely a tricky situation being in charge of child care. Not only do you want the children to love and respect you, but you have to have the same effect on their parents. No parent will want to entrust their child to you unless you have an equal balance of like and respect with them. It was through my quick ability to figure this out (I give credit towards me being a Cancer, look up the Zodiac sign if you don't know anything about it), that landed me on getting a promotion after a year at my current position. Ultimately all my promotion entailed was longer hours, being located in an extremely low-economical neighborhood (therefore dealing with a wide range of parents), larger program size (meaning more employees and students), while only receiving a slightly larger pay increase. Because those in the education system do what they do out of the love of helping/improving the lives of other, not for pay (although an increase in pay would be HIGHLY deserved).

It wasn't until my mother got diagnosed with breast cancer that everything changed. It shook me to my core. My grandmother had passed away from this horrible hereditary disease and I was terrified that that same result was going to be of my mom. It was during that time that I started drawing as a means to distract myself form everything that was happening. Found out quickly that I was extremely good at it and it wasn't even a year later that I had a waiting list of people from all of the world wanting me to draw for them. 

I always knew I had this creative beast living inside of me that I never fully indulged in, but I wasn't quite aware of what I was capable of until that all happened. I had a huge reality check and started questioning what I was doing with my life professionally. I loved my job, more than anything, but doing art and allowing my creative mind run free was the greatest feeling I had ever felt in my entire life. It was then that I decided to resign from my job with the school district and pack up my things and move to Austin, TX so I could be submerged in an atmosphere that was consumed by more like minded creative types. It was extremely risky, especially since I had worked so hard for where I was already at, but I had a gut feeling that it was where I was supposed to be. Plus it helped knowing if it didn't work out that I still had a job back in Dallas. My coworkers and supervisors were extremely supportive of what I was doing, yet appreciated me enough to take me back if it fell through.

At first I was a preschool teacher, at which the child care facility over worked and underpaid me just for having my director's license and by licensing standards they could do so. Needless to say I didn't stay there long. Next I became a nanny for a wonderful family in Tarrytown that I still consider my "family in Austin". That in itself was an interesting experience. A family that expects you at every beckoning call (because that is your roll, they're paying you to be there when they need you) teaches you to be extremely empathetic of others and the situations they are going through, yet at the same time teaches you to know when to stand your ground when you need to make your needs accounted for. 

When Austin started the UI Design course at The Iron Yard, honestly I was jealous at first. I saw what he was doing and immediately thought:

>Holy cow, I can seriously do that, and do it well"

I have a mathematical brain, while having a designers eye. I know coding isn't technically "mathematical" and that it's actually a language, but in my mind it just made sense as if any math equation normally would: If you're doing it right it works, if not it doesn't. 

My parents saw him working on his final project and they confirmed my thoughts, pushing me further to test my abilities and give it a shot. So here I am. I'm still extremely new to everything, but I'm excited to learn and see where this wonderful adventure takes me. 